
---

# 📘 **Notes: Method Overloading vs Method Overriding**
---

## ✅ **Method Overloading**
- Method overloading means providing two or more separate methods in a class with the same name but different parameters.
- Method return type may or may not be different, and that allows us to reuse the same method name.
- Overloading is very handy, it reduces duplicated code, and we don't have to remember multiple method names.
- We can overload static or instance methods. 
- To the code calling an overloaded method, it looks like a single method can be called with different sets of arguments.
- In actuality, each call that's made with a different set of arguments is calling a separate method.
- Java developers often refer to method overloading, as compile-time polymorphism.
- This means the compiler is determining the right method to call, based on the method name and argument list.
- Usually overloading happens within a single class.
- But methods can also be overloaded by subclasses.
- That's because a subclass inherits one version of the method from the parent class, and then the subclass can have another overloaded version of that method.
---

## ✅ **Method Overloading Rules**
* Methods will be considered overloaded if both methods follow the following rules:
  - Methods must have the same method name.
  - Methods must have different parameters.
* If methods follow the rules above:
  - They may or may not have different return types.
  - They may or may not have different access modifiers.
  - They may or may not throw different checked or unchecked exceptions.
---
